now it happened when David and his men
came to Ziklag on the third day that the
Amalekites had invaded the south and
Ziggler attacked Ziklag and burned it
with fire and have taken captive the
women and those who were there from
small to great they did not kill anyone
but carried them away and went their way
so David and his men came to the city
and there it was burned with fire and
their wives their sons and their
daughters had been taken captive and
David and the people who are with him
lifted up their voices and wept until
they had no more power to weep and
David's two wives a he know um the
jezreelite s and Abigail the widow of
Nabal the carmelite had been taken
captive now david was greatly distressed
for the people spoke of stoning him
because the soul of all the people was
grieved every man for his sons and his
daughters but David strengthened himself
in the Lord his God then David said to
abaya the priest a him Alex son please
bring the e-fit here to me and a by
arthur brought the ephod to David so
David inquired of the Lord shall I
pursue this truth shall I overtake them
pursue for you shall surely overtake
them and without fail recover all so
David went he and the 600 men who were
with him and came to the Brook vessel
where those stayed who were left behind
but David pursued he and 400 men for 200
stay behind who was so weary that they
could not cross the brook peaceful then
they found an Egyptian in the field and
brought him to David and they gave him
bread and he ate and they let him drink
water and they gave him a piece of a
cake of figs and two clusters of raisins
so when he had eaten his strength came
back to him before he had eaten no bread
nor drunk water for three days and three
nights when David said to him to whom do
you belong and where are you from I am a
young man from Egypt servants of an
Amalekite and my master left me behind
because three days ago I fell sick
we made an invasion of the southern area
of the Karaites in the territory which
belongs to Judah and of the southern
area of Caleb and we burned Ziklag with
fire can you take me down to this troop
I swear to me by God that you would
neither kill me nor deliver me into the
hands of my master and I will take you
down to this troop and when he had
brought him down there they were spread
out over all the land eating them
drinking and dancing because of all the
great spoil which they had taken from
the land of the Philistines and from the
land of Judah
the david attacked me from twilight
until the evening of the next day not a
man from escaped except four hundred
young men who rode on camels and fled so
david recovered all that the Amalekites
had carried away and david rescued his
two wives and nothing of theirs was
lacking by the small or great sons or
daughters spoil or anything which they
had taken from them david recovered all
and david took all the flocks and herds
they had driven before those other
livestock and said this is david spoiled
now david came to the two hundred men
who have been so weary that they could
not follow david whom they also had made
to stay at the brook BC so they went out
to meet David and to meet the people who
are with him
and when David came near the people he
greeted them then all the wicked and
worthless man of those who went with
David answered and said because they did
not go with us we will not give them any
of the spoil that we have recovered
except for every man's wife and children
that they may lead them away and depart
my brethren you shall not do so with
what the Lord has given us who has
preserved us and delivered into our hand
the troupe that came against us for who
will heed you in this matter but as his
part is who goes down to the battle so
shall his part be who stays by the
supplies they shall share alike so it
was from that day forward he made it a
statute and an ordinance for Israel to
this day now when David came to Ziklag
he sent some of the spoil to the elders
of Judah to his friends saying here is a
present for you from the spoil of the
enemies of the Lord to those who were in
Bethel those who were in ramoth of the
south those who were in jetta those who
were in a rower those who were in
SIFMA's those who were in ishtam or
those who were in rakel those who were
in the cities of the jeremiah lights
those who were in the cities of the
Kenites those who were in homer those
who were in koishi those who weigh in
ethic those who were in Hebron and to
all the places where David himself and
his men were accustomed to Rove
[Music]
you